FIRST CLASS

This course provides a toolkit that solves problems in astrophysics.

1) Computer architecture

2) Computer Programming Languages

3) Software Engineering

CPU: A central processing unit (CPU) is the electronic circuitry within a computer that carries out the instructions of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetic, logical, control and input/output (I/O) operations specified by the instructions.
	ID: Instruction decode
	ALU: An arithmetic logic unit is a combinational digital electronic circuit that performs arithmetic and bitwise operations on integer binary numbers.
	Reg: Registers - fetch and store data
	MMU: Memory Management Unit - talks to registers. Gets data from some external chip / memory elsewhere.

Frequency is so great and the size is so small that the speed of light must be put into considerations.

Cache: many levels. A CPU cache is a hardware cache used by the central processing unit (CPU) of a computer to reduce the average cost (time or energy) to access data from the main memory. 

Bus: In computer architecture, a bus is a communication system that transfers data between components inside a computer, or between computers.

4 processors:
CPU		CPU
	BUS
CPU		CPU


TAKEAWAY
When we think about performance, what we care about is how to organize memory.


SQL:
SQL is what is called a declarative language. Hard part isn't necessarily calculation but data acquisition. SQL has things organized so that we don't gotta look at each index rather there is a complex algorithm that does it for us. It picks subsets that make it faster so it doesn't have to test each entry. Great things about databases and SQL. 

By doing same thing in Python, there's actually a lot of unneeded stuff. There is a lot of interpretive overhead. 

Abstraction is the process of taking away or removing characteristics from something in order to reduce it to a set of essential characteristics.



SIDE NOTES:
Side note is that CMD+control+f is normal screen to full screen and vice versa









